well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about how Disney got frozen feet I know
I'm a little late to this conversation
but tonight I watched both films
back-to-back with my daughter and I'd
never actually sat through the second
one and I just assumed that it provided
a little bit of closure to something I
think pretty much everybody that watched
the first one noticed maybe not
everybody but a lot of people noticed
Disney is an organization always has
subtext Peter Pan for example it had a
lot of subtext they plan everything even
their construction projects when
Disneyland
went up in the 50s everything was
planned down to the last detail pull the
influences from all over the world they
did have one slight issue because of a
plumber strike they had to choose
between working toilets or running water
in the fountains they wisely chose to
have the toilets working but overall the
company plans every detail about
everything it's it's always been there
there's always subtext it hasn't always
been good subtext you know looking back
on it but it's always been there
now if you haven't seen the films there
they're going to be some mild spoilers
in this the first film the first first
movie there's two princesses one well
she's a little bit different she is a
little bit different she's a little
colder frigid even might be how some
people would describe someone like this
she has parents who are accepting of her
differences in the beginning and then of
course there's an incident and they go
to see what
might be considered religious leaders
and then from that point forward she's
locked in a closet well not a closet I
mean that's a little too on-the-nose
she's she's locked in a row now the
younger sister Anna she has run of the
castle but she still walked away a
mishap the hall the Falls the parents
Elsa the elder sister well she becomes
Queen coronation happens they open up
the castle she still has to keep that
secret though has to keep it concealed I
don't want people to know now her
younger sister she falls in love with
the first dude she meets like literally
the first guy this rubs also the wrong
way of course I mean as might happen if
your younger sibling found true love and
you were still trying to find yourself
this leads to an argument and in the
middle of this argument
Elsa's secret is exposed to the room
people being what they are fear what
they don't really understand and they
ridicule she leaves as often happens
when someone you love leaves the whole
town gets a little bit colder Elsa takes
off into the hills her only companion is
a her imaginary Canadian boyfriend from
childhood
a snowman who wants nothing from her her
only metal counterparts only male
influence not a romantic influence of
course I mean they didn't put a beard on
him surprisingly now it being a Disney
movie of course the younger sister comes
to her and everybody goes back and saves
the day and all is right with the world
at the end of that film if you're
actually watching it not you know just
watching it for the kids
actually paying attention to it you know
Elsa can move ice and snow but you know
she's different another way - it's plain
it's there and the assumption is that
the second film would confirm that
because what good is subtext if it isn't
eventually acknowledged so the second
film starts off with them as kids again
Elsa's playing with some dolls and Anna
comes in and makes the prince and
princess kiss and Elsa says ooh because
she's a little different and then it's
them older there she is she's safe with
her close friends and family those
people who know her secret and she's
comfortable with that but she hears this
female voice calling calling her out
into the world she's a little scared to
take that trip but she goes and her and
her sisters where a pact they're gonna
do everything together and along the way
they uncover some family secrets you
know like her grandfather was not nice
to people like her and eventually also
has to go down into a cave of a rather
provocative shape which her sister does
not come with her because I imagine
that'd be a little weird and when she
gets down there and and of course saves
the day there for some unknown reason
ice crystals begin to glow and almost a
complete rainbow of colors but it's
never acknowledged the world gets set
right again but it never there's never
that overt nod there's never that
acknowledgement of the subtext that
existed through both films I mean come
on
the only character that Elsa ever had a
moment with of any kind was another
woman at a campfire and as they're
sitting there looking at each other of
course the Giants walk by in the earth
moves I mean come on
but it's never acknowledged and it does
it bothers me
partly because I enjoy subtext and
eventually it has to be acknowledged
otherwise it's a lot like those water
fountains in a perfect scene it's
something that's left undone the other
reason I think it irritates me is that
there is a whole lot of little girls out
there that could probably use a nod from
Elsa yeah I can understand Disney's
point of view for not wanting to put it
out there too overly and anger the
religious right but come on give her a
rainbow flag tattoo on her ankle or
something in frozen three give us
something because the fact is Disney is
a massive machine Disney could be an
engine for social change there is still
a lot of bigotry and Disney having Elsa
acknowledge how she's different could
help a whole lot of people well let it
go anyway it's just a fault y'all have a
good night